[DOCS] Move `store` utils to individual reference pages (#483)
solidjs/solid-docs-next: src/routes/reference/store-utilities/reconcile.mdx

---
title: reconcile
---

```tsx
function reconcile<T>(
	value: T | Store<T>,
	options?: {
		key?: string | null;
		merge?: boolean;
	} = { key: "id" }
): (
	state: T extends NotWrappable ? T : Store<T>
) => T extends NotWrappable ? T : Store<T>;

> ```

Reviewer: similar to other comments - please move below first blurb

> Diffs data changes when we can't apply granular updates.
> Useful for when dealing with immutable data from stores or large API responses.
> 
> The key option is used when available to match items.
> By default the `merge` option false does referential checks where possible to determine equality and replaces where items are not referentially equal.
> `merge` as `true` pushes all diffing to the leaves and effectively morphs the previous data to the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`reconcile` is designed for diffing data changes in situations where granular updates cannot be applied. 
This is useful when dealing with immutable data from stores or handling large API responses.
`reconcile` has a key option that can be used when available to match items.

`value` accepts either a value of type `T` or a Store containing values of type `T`. 
This represents the data to be reconciled.

      The `reconcile` function helps manage data changes by performing a diffing process, making it particularly handy in scenarios where applying granular updates is challenging or inefficient. 
      The `key` and `merge` options provide flexibility to customize the reconciliation process based on specific needs.
```

```ts
// subscribing to an observable
const unsubscribe = store.subscribe(({ todos }) => (
  setState('todos', reconcile(todos)));
);
onCleanup(() => unsubscribe());

```

##### Options

> | Option | Type    | Default | Description                        |
> | ------ | ------- | ------- | ---------------------------------- |
> | key    | string  | "id"    | The key to use for matching items. |
> | merge  | boolean | false   | Whether to merge or replace items. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Option | Type    | Default | Description                        |
| ------ | ------- | ------- | ---------------------------------- |
| key    | string  | "id"    |  Specifies the key to be used for matching items during reconciliation |
| merge  | boolean | false   | When merge is false, referential checks are performed where possible to determine equality, and items that are not referentially equal are replaced. When merge is true, all diffing is pushed to the leaves, effectively morphing the previous data to the new value. |
```
